FOTIOS STATHOPOULOS
Personal Info
Birthday: 14th Oct 1976
Address: Agia Paraskeyi, Attica, Greece
Email: fotioss@icloud.com
Github: https://github.com/infosetGR/
Udemy: https://www.udemy.com/user/fotios-stathopoulos/
Phone: +306945757037
Profile
Experienced Technical Manager with 19 years of expertise across the full architecture
and development lifecycle. Specializing in cloud solutions, I am committed to delivering
impactful, measurable results that drive process excellence and maximize customer
satisfaction. Holding multiple certifications in Azure and AWS, I excel in both technical
proficiency and strategic leadership. Leading by example, I foster a collaborative and
growth-oriented team environment, mentoring and motivating team members to achieve
high performance and successful outcomes.
Core Skills
• Proven experience in team management using agile methodologies, driving software
development teams to exceed performance goals.
• Expertise in technical planning and budgeting for complex IT projects.
• Leadership in cloud migration and infrastructure projects (serverless, SaaS, PaaS) with a
focus on lean six sigma principles.
• AWS Certified Solutions Architect & DevOps Engineer Professional.
• Azure Certified Solutions Architect Expert and Data Engineer Associate.
• Extensive DevOps and SDLC expertise (AWS & Azure DevOps, CI/CD, Docker,
Kubernetes, IaaC/Terraform, Jenkins, Git), with a strong ability to design and implement
scalable cloud infrastructures and CI/CD pipelines for enterprise applications.
• Product management proficiency, delivering tailored software solutions and SaaS using
SOLID principles and design patterns.
• Excellent communication skills, adept at collaborating with cross-functional teams and C-
level executives to build strong working relationships.
• Customer-centric approach, consistently delivering high-quality enterprise solutions within
tight deadlines.
• Strong technical expertise in serverless architectures, microservices on Docker &
Kubernetes, C#, Java, .NET, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Python, LINQ,
JavaScript (JQuery, ExtJS, React.js, NodeJS), Firebase.
• Extensive experience in Big Data and distributed computing technologies (Databricks,
Spark, Cassandra, Kafka, HDFS, HBase, Hive, Presto, ElasticSearch, Kibana), with
certifications in AWS Data Analytics and Azure Data Engineering.
• Expertise in real time data analytics utilizing Apache Flink in multiple cloud environments
• Expertise in building LLM application (LangChain, LangGraph, Hugging Face, OpenAI,
Amazon Bedrock, AI agents, Pinecone, streamlit, cursor, firecrawl)
• Experience with building blockchain and Etherium smart contracts.
Career History
September 2024 – now: Infoset LTD
Founder and Head Engineer
• Relaunched Infoset with a strategic focus on delivering cutting-edge AI solutions, specializing
in the development of agentic applications, Advanced Retrieval-Augmented Generation
(RAG) workflows, and LLM-powered systems. Leading product vision, architecture, and go-
to-market strategy for a suite of AI tools designed to enable intelligent automation, knowledge
discovery, and enterprise integration.
• Oversaw the launch of high-impact open services such as diavgeia.infoset.co,
nomos.infoset.co, and business.infoset.co, simplifying access to public data through user-
friendly interfaces and open APIs. Driving collaboration with developers, researchers, and
organizations to operationalize AI responsibly and effectively.
May 2019 to August 2024 Freelance
• Lead Cloud & AI Consultant, Incelligent Oct 2023 - Oct 2024
o External consultancy for the cloud migration of a major Greek bank's data
warehouse to Azure and Databricks.
o Conducted a comprehensive assessment of the bank's IT landscape by
measuring facts and data from internal systems, identifying challenges and
developing a detailed migration roadmap.
o Led an outsourced development team, ensuring the successful delivery of key
modernization projects on Azure Databricks.
o Conducted the transition of critical e-banking real-time pipelines to Apache Flink,
achieving over 50% improvement in performance and cost efficiency compared to
the previous Spark-based process.
o External consultancy on the design and architecture of a cloud-based fuel trading
analytics platform for the Greek government. Designed overall architecture, reviewed
and approved final technical design.
o Co-led the technical study, design and architecture on Azure (Synapse, Data
Factory, Databricks, Power BI, ML), integrating multiple government systems to
build a robust data analytics and machine learning platform aimed at detecting
delinquent behavior in fuel trading and consumption.
o Lead Technical Consultant for Public Power Corporation’s Big Data cleansing and
Cloud migration project to Azure.
o Held full responsibility for the technical execution and delivery of the project.
o Designed and implemented the overall architecture for the PoC (Databricks, Azure
Synapse) and the delta mechanism for migrating customer data to a new CRM.
o Reduced processing time from 40 hours to 1 hour by leveraging Databricks
workflows and Spark notebooks on Azure.
• Chief Technology Officer. (London start-up in Industry 4.0 & AR in Manufacturing) (March
2021 – September 2021).
o Driving the technical design and business plan from concept to execution. Led
technical discussions and established partnership agreements with multiple service
delivery partners. Designed the overall architecture, reducing the required investment
from £10M to £3.5M by leveraging strategic outsourcing and partnerships.
• Self-Training. (December 2020 – February 2021)
o Achieved 5 AWS certifications and earned a Six Sigma Black Belt certification through
independent study.
• Software Consultant, Innovation Sprint Ltd (Belgium startup in Health IT) (June 2020 –
November 2020)
o Led the cloud transformation to Azure, designing the migration of core production
systems to .Net Core 3.1, Azure SQL and Kubernetes with Terraform and IaaC.
Implemented a Code First approach, reducing development time by ~25% and
accelerating CI/CD deployments by 3x.
o Enhanced security at both the code and design levels with automated checks and
alerts, ensuring immediate notification of security breaches or incidents.
o Planned and implemented a microservices architecture, automating quality control
processes. Production errors decreased by 70%, while compliance with quality
regulations was achieved.
o Led the development of an e-Consent mobile app featuring video streaming, user
verification and e-signing capabilities.
• Software Consultant, Mobile App "Borw" (London startup in Fashion) (November 2019 –
April 2020).
o Designed and developed Borw, a peer-to-peer shopping ecosystem mobile app for
Android and iOS. Integrated with popular social media platforms (Facebook, Google)
and Stripe payment APIs (React Native, Express server (TypeScript), Redux and
Firebase, GCP (Google Cloud platform), Sentry, SendGrid.
• Lead Architect, Decision Support System for Interreg RECONNECT Project. (May 2019 –
September 2019).
o Architected a data analysis platform to provide decision support for construction
projects in environmentally protected areas, using Python and Dash with GIS libraries
and World Databank data.The platform enabled accurate projection and allocation of
construction areas, balancing environmental costs and benefits, saving thousands of
euros.
November 2021 to September 2023 Big Data Manager/Software Architect
Amdocs LTD
• Leadership & Strategy: Led the Big Data team in the design and development of
enterprise-level solutions for data warehousing, analytics and geospatial applications,
ensuring alignment with business goals and technical requirements.
• Cloud Architecture & Optimization: Re-architected the core platform for cloud service
delivery on Azure using Docker, Kubernetes and DevOps, improving scalability, performance
and resource utilization by over 50% through task segregation and queuing optimizations.
• Feature Innovation: Designed and integrated US Census data into existing platforms for
advanced geographical analysis and visual representation, enhancing the analytical
capabilities of the system.
• Serverless IoT Solution: Developed a serverless solution on AWS for real-time and batch
processing of IoT data, enabling telemetry and malfunction analytics for over 1M devices.
Utilized Apache Flink and Amazon Athena for geospatial insights and network status
monitoring, empowering customer care teams with real-time decision-making capabilities.
• Team Leadership: Successfully led and motivated a remote team using Teams, GitHub,
GitLab and Azure DevOps, driving efficient collaboration, improved performance and
enhanced client satisfaction.
• Cross-Functional Collaboration: Partnered with AI/ML teams to provide architectural
oversight for big data projects, ensuring seamless integration of machine learning models
within cloud infrastructures.
• Innovation & Recognition: Contributed to the development of Sparkz, a project that earned
3rd place in the company’s 2022 innovation competition, competing against 70 proposals
and demonstrating forward-thinking technical solutions.
January 2012 –October 2021: Infoset LTD
Chief Technology Officer/Founder
• Technology Leadership: Directed all aspects of technology, architecture, scaling and
execution for the company, overseeing the development team responsible for delivering
health IT systems and services to pharmaceuticals, CROs and research organizations.
• SaaS Platform Development: Designed and led the development of STUDIO, a ground-
breaking SaaS cloud platform for managing clinical trials electronically. The platform included
applications such as eCRF, CTMS, e-Training, finance and payments, eTMF and more. This
solution enabled pharmaceutical companies and CROs to reduce data management costs by
~30% while offering full flexibility in trial execution.
• Project Management & Delivery: Successfully completed over 30 projects throughout the
platform's lifecycle, including high-profile projects for Fortune 500 pharmaceutical companies
and their subsidiaries. Technology Stack: Visual Studio, ASP.NET, C#, MS SQL Server, MS
SQL Reporting Services, Ext.js, Azure Cloud.
• Strategic Decisions: Conducted in-depth market due diligence to assess buy vs. build
strategies and optimized system validation procedures in accordance with ISO9001 and GCP
guidelines.
• Innovation in Patient Support Systems: Architected and led the development of IPSOSYS,
a pioneering patient support system designed to organize medical personnel workflows,
coordinate medical supply delivery and generate insights from active programs. Collaborated
closely with product and development teams to identify key features, resolve pain points and
implement strategic architectural changes, achieving the projected ROI within one year.
• Agile Implementation & Engineering Oversight: Instituted agile development
methodologies across all IT projects, providing leadership in system architecture, engineering
guidance and verification processes. Successfully achieved a profitability margin of 50% on
software development projects.
• Industry Engagement: Participated as a speaker/presenter at international med-tech
conferences, contributing innovative ideas that led to key partnerships and new business
opportunities.
• ERP/CRM Development: Led the development of ERP, CRM, inventory and accounting
applications on the Odoo platform (OpenERP, MVC, Python). Identified market gaps and
drove a product differentiation strategy to address niche markets.
January 2010 – November 2011 Aksia LTD
Software Development Manager
• Established and led IT Branch: Established and managed the company’s IT branch in
Greece from its inception, overseeing the recruitment, training and development of a high-
performing team, while driving the branch's growth and technical excellence.
• Team Growth & Strategic Development: Transformed the team into the company’s core
software development department by progressively expanding technical capabilities, meeting
growing demands and fostering continuous growth and skill development.
• High-Performance Culture: Built a high-performance development organization with a
strong focus on people, ethics, integrity and agile methodologies.
• Key Projects: Led the design, implementation and optimization of multiple critical financial
and reporting applications, including:
o Financial applications with third-party integrations such as Blue Spring BPM,
Bloomberg, Yahoo Finance, Edgar Online and Dow Jones Factiva.
o Migrated 13F reports to a fully customizable reporting and statistical application.
o Developed Condor, a reporting and hedge fund monitoring application.
o Created a Hedge Funds Liquidity reporting tool, tracking liquidity based on fund
transactions and holdings.
o Developed a funds screener with dynamic filters and portfolio selection tools.
o Designed and implemented an internal CRM system, fully integrated into the
company’s intranet portal.
o Technology Stack: Visual Studio, ASP.NET, C#, MS SQL Server, Ext.NET.
January 2006 – December 2009 Intellisolutions S.A.
Senior Software Consultant
• Project Planning & Execution: Successfully planned and executed IT projects within the
banking and telecommunications sectors.
• Client Collaboration: Continuous consultation and collaboration with clients throughout all
project phases, from pre-sales meetings to final delivery, ensuring alignment with client
needs and goals.
• Solution Conceptualization & Team Leadership: Spearheaded the conceptualization of
new solutions while overseeing development teams from a technical management
perspective.
• Enterprise Content Management (ECM) Success: Delivered successful ECM projects for
two of the top three banks in Greece, generating ~€1.5M in annual revenue through service
design and technical leadership.
• Hands-On Development & Architectural Design: Led the development and design of
solutions, leveraging technologies such as ASP.NET, SQL Server, MS SharePoint for
Enterprise Records Management and Business Process Management systems. Developed
an intranet-based Customer Identification Process system, consolidating data from multiple
bank systems to improve efficiency and accuracy. Architected an automated Invoice Process
Management System, capable of recognizing scanned images, extracting metadata and
processing them in accordance with the bank's process management system.
April 2005 – December 2005 TELLAS S.A
Software Engineer
• Architectural Design & Analysis: Conducted architectural design and analysis, overseeing
software development and ensuring quality in vendor deliverables.
• Hands-On Development and Systems optimization: Directly contributed to the
development and enhancement of the Billing System (Geneva) and CRM (Siebel) while
optimizing Fraud and Commissioning systems (Oracle 9g) based on management
requirements, resulting in significant cost savings by avoiding the need for expensive system
extensions.
June 2003 – April 2005 4M S.A
Software developer
• Web-Based Project Implementation: Led the implementation of web-based projects,
including an internal ERP system and e-commerce platform. These systems supported the
entire customer base with online software updates, ticketing, seminar registrations and more.
This initiative resulted in a ~90% increase in web sales and a ~30% reduction in client
support time.
• Software Optimization & Research: Contributed to the research and optimization of 4M
software products, including applications developed in Delphi, VB.NET and MS Access.
• Server Infrastructure Administration: Supporting both Windows 2000 and Linux servers to
ensure reliable and efficient operation.
Education
University of Edinburgh, UK
MSc in Computer Science (2000 - 2001)
The program provided a robust foundation in advanced software development topics, including
Software Engineering with Objects and Components, Human-Computer Interaction, Distributed
Systems, Mobile Computation, Algorithms and Data Structures, Computer Communications,
Database Systems and Programming Methodology. Specialized in object-oriented software
design and distributed applications. Led a team in developing the "Rail Track Software
Architecture Prototype," delivering a prototype architecture for the UK rail track signaling project.
My dissertation was about implementing a modeling and simulation tool on Java.
National Technical University of Athens (N.T.U.A.), Greece
Bachelor in Electrical and Computer Engineering (1995 - 2000)
Degree: 7.4 / 10
The five-year program covered approximately 60 courses across Mathematics, Physics,
Electronics, Software and Hardware Design, Low and High-Level Programming Languages,
Networks, Databases, Energy Systems, Automated Systems, Robotics and Management.
Focused on Information Technology in the final 2.5 years. Completed a thesis on designing and
developing a collaborative internet-based educational assessment tool using Java.
Certifications
• Azure Solutions Architect Expert 15/6/2021 Certification Number: H856-1892 transcript
• Azure DevOps Engineer Expert 6/4/2024 Certification Number: AD4FE0-KD3B4A
transcript
• Azure Data Scientist Associate 14/5/2024 Certification Number: R1957A-B9F83B
transcript
• Azure Administrator Associate 6/4/2024 Certification Number: B6E6A6-F450FJ
transcript
• Azure Data Engineer Associate 11/1/2023 Certification Number: I565-6137 transcript
• AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Professional 12/02/2021 cert
• AWS Certified DevOps Engineer – Professional 25/01/2021 cert
• AWS Certified Data Analytics – Specialty 19/3/2021 (expired) cert
• IASCC Lean Six Sigma Certified Black Belt 31/12/2020 ) (expired) IASSC CBB: B-7965
cert.
• AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate 27/11/2020 cert
• AWS Certified Developer - Associate 08/12/2020 cert
• ODOO – Odoo 12 (1435149 – 27/1/2019) cert
• SCDM - Certified Clinical Data Manager (22044 - 15/1/2013) (expired) cert
• Udemy - Over 50 completed courses (https://www.udemy.com/user/fotios-stathopoulos viewable
through udemy account)
• 431 TS: Microsoft SQL Server™ 2005 - Implementation and Maintenance (8/4/2008)
• 528 TS: Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0 - Web-based Client Development (9/1/2007)
• Microsoft® Certified Technology Specialist: SQL Server 2005 (8/4/2008), C063-1591
• Abbyy Certified Professional 2007
Other
• Member of T.E.E. (Technical Chamber of Greece)
• Military obligation fulfilled (March 2002 – May 2003).
• Scholarship: EPCRC studentship for the MSc degree in Edinburgh University (2001).
• Award: 2nd best performance in National Mathematics competition in central Greece
(1994).
• Languages: Fluent English, Native Greek.
Interests and Activities
I enjoy running, regular exercising and kitesurfing.
